README.md, before:

# Project: Mimic Me!

## Introduction

This project is part of the Artificial Intelligence Nanodegree. I used the Affectiva API to create an emoji mimic game. Emojis are falling from the sky and the player needs to mimic them to score points. The Affectiva API delivers facial keypoints, likelihoods of different emotions and a dominant emoji that best represents the current facial expression. 

## Overview

In this project, you will learn to track faces in a video and identify facial expressions using Affectiva. As a fun visualization, you will tag each face with an appropriate emoji next to it. You will then turn this into a game where the player needs to mimic a random emoji displayed by the computer!


## Getting Started

We’ll be using [Affectiva](http://www.affectiva.com/)’s Emotion-as-a-Service API for this project. Visit their [Developer Portal](http://developer.affectiva.com/) and try out some of the sample apps. Affectiva makes it really easy to extract detailed information about faces in an image or video stream. To get a sense for what information you can obtain, check out the [Metrics](http://developer.affectiva.com/metrics/) page.

### Project files

To start working on the project, open the following files in your favorite text editor:

- **mimic.js**: Javascript file with code that connects to the Affectiva API and processes results.
- **index.html**: Dynamic webpage that displays the video feed and results.
- **mimic.css**: Stylesheet file that defines the layout and presentation for HTML elements.

_You only need to implement the TODOs in mimic.js to complete the project. But feel free to modify the HTML and/or CSS file to change the look and feel of your game!_

There are two additional files provided for serving your project as a local web application - you do not need to make any changes to them:

- **serve.py**: A lightweight Python webserver required to serve the webpage over HTTPS, so that we can access the webcam feed.
- **generate-pemfile.sh**: A shell script you’ll need to run once to generate an SSL certificate for the webserver.

### Serving locally over HTTPS

In order to access the webcam stream, modern browsers require you to serve your web app over HTTPS. To run locally, you will need to general an SSL certificate (this is a one-time step):

- Open a terminal or command-prompt, and ensure you are inside the `AIND-CV-Mimic/` directory.
- Run the following shell script: `generate-pemfile.sh`

This creates an SSL certificate file named `my-ssl-cert.pem` that is used to serve over https.

Now you can launch the server using:

```
python serve.py
```

_Note: The `serve.py` script uses Python 3._

Alternately, you can put your HTML, JS and CSS files on an online platform (such as [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/)) and develop your project there.

### Running and implementing the game

Open a web browser and go to: [https://localhost:4443/](https://localhost:4443/)

- Hit the Start button to initiate face tracking. You may have to give permission for the app to access your webcam.
- Hit the Stop button to stop tracking and Reset to reset the detector (in case it becomes stuck or unstable).
- Modify the Javascript code to implement TODOs as indicated in inline comments. Then refresh the page in your browser (_you may need to do a "hard-refresh" for the changes to show up, e.g. `Cmd+Shift+R` on a Mac), or use an auto-reload solution._
- When you’re done, you can shutdown the server by pressing `Ctrl+C` at the terminal.

_Note: Your browser may notify you that your connection is not secure - that is because the SSL certificate you just created is not signed by an SSL Certificate Authority‎. This is okay, because we are using it only as a workaround to access the webcam. You can suppress the warning or choose "Proceed Anyway" to open the page._


## Tasks

The starter code sends frames from your webcam to Affectiva’s cloud-based API and fetches the results. You can see several metrics being reported, including emotions, expressions and the dominant emoji!

### 1. Display Feature Points

Your first task is to display the feature points on top of the webcam image that are returned along with the metrics.

To do this, open up mimic.js, and implement the `drawFeaturePoints()` function:

```javascript
function drawFeaturePoints(canvas, img, face) {
    ...
}
```

### 2. Show Dominant Emoji

In addition to feature points and metrics that capture facial expressions and emotions, the Affectiva API also reports back what emoji best represents the current emotional state of a face. This is referred to as the _dominant emoji_.

In mimic.js, implement the `drawEmoji()` function to display this emoji on top of the webcam feed, tracking the user's face:

```javascript
function drawEmoji(canvas, img, face) {
    ...
}
```

### 3. Implement Mimic Me!

Now it's your turn to implement the game mechanics and make it as fun as possible! Scroll down to the bottom of mimic.js for more instructions. Feel free to modify the HTML and/or CSS files to change the look and feel of the game as well.


## Extensions

Sky’s the limit on where you can take this project! Feel free to share with your friends and family. You can host it online to make it available to everyone.

Some ideas for extensions:

- Make it a 2 player game, like Guitar Hero, where you compete with someone to mimic as many emojis as you can out of a streaming sequence of them.
- Pair a stream of emojis with a script and have the player read the script, interspersed with emotional expressions that are checked by the computer. Great for some acting practice!


## Affectiva Resources

As you work on your code, you may have to refer to resources in Affectiva's [JS SDK documentation](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/getting-started-with-the-emotion-sdk-for-javascript).

Other references:

- [Affectiva Developer portal](http://developer.affectiva.com/index.html)
- [Demo](https://jsfiddle.net/affectiva/opyh5e8d/show/) that this project is based on
- Tutorials:
 [Camera stream](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-the-camera-stream-3), [video](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-a-video-frame-stream-4), [photo](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-a-photo-3)


<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>. Please refer to [Udacity Terms of Service](https://www.udacity.com/legal) for further information.

Commit message:

Completed the readme and fixed minor bugs
Default settings were off.

README.md, after:

# Project: Mimic Me!

## Introduction

This project is part of the Artificial Intelligence Nanodegree. I used the Affectiva API to create an emoji mimic game. Emojis are falling from the sky and the player needs to mimic them to score points. The Affectiva API delivers facial keypoints, likelihoods of different emotions and a dominant emoji that best represents the current facial expression. 

## Description

### Display feature points

A list of feature point position is delivered by the Affectiva API for every recognized face. Displaying these is as simple as looping through the list and plotting for example small circles at the x,y position of every feature point.
![feature_points](/images/screen_keypoints.jpg)

### Dominant Emoji

The Affectiva API also provides a dominant emoji based on the evaluation of the emotions detected in the face. I defined the position of the players face by calculating the min, max and center values of the x and y coordinates of all facial keypoints. Using these, the dominant emoji can easily be placed relative to the players face. In my case this is in the center and to the right of the face for most of the game.
![feature_points](/images/screen_emoji.jpg)

### Mimic Game

During gameplay, random emojis are created and have to be mimicked by the player. The emojis start at the top of the screen and fall down. If the players mimics the emoji before it reaches the bottom, he gains a point, otherwise he loses one. The game continues until a certain number of points is reached. Extra features that are difficult to highlight on the screenshot is background music as well as audio cues (countdown when and emoji gets close to reaching the bottom and when a point is scored or lost).<br>
There is also a settings area where the number of points needed to win, the number of columns of the game grid, the speed of the falling emojis as well as the emoji spawn rate can be set.
![feature_points](/images/screen_targets.jpg)

### Game Grid

The game is played on a set of columns the number of which can be chosen by the player. When new emojis spawn, they do so in a randomly selected column. The player has to be positioned correctly as well as mimic the right expression to score a point. The column the player is currently in is highlighted to make positioning easier.
![feature_points](/images/screen_columns.jpg)

### Scoring

When a point is scored this is indicated by a huge face-covering emoji as well as a soundeffect (hard to highlight on the screenshot). The score display is also updated. When the game is won, a final screenshot is taken to celebrate the players huge achievement.
![feature_points](/images/screen_score.jpg)
![feature_points](/images/screen_win.jpg)


## Overview

In this project, you will learn to track faces in a video and identify facial expressions using Affectiva. As a fun visualization, you will tag each face with an appropriate emoji next to it. You will then turn this into a game where the player needs to mimic a random emoji displayed by the computer!


## Getting Started

We’ll be using [Affectiva](http://www.affectiva.com/)’s Emotion-as-a-Service API for this project. Visit their [Developer Portal](http://developer.affectiva.com/) and try out some of the sample apps. Affectiva makes it really easy to extract detailed information about faces in an image or video stream. To get a sense for what information you can obtain, check out the [Metrics](http://developer.affectiva.com/metrics/) page.

### Project files

To start working on the project, open the following files in your favorite text editor:

- **mimic.js**: Javascript file with code that connects to the Affectiva API and processes results.
- **index.html**: Dynamic webpage that displays the video feed and results.
- **mimic.css**: Stylesheet file that defines the layout and presentation for HTML elements.

_You only need to implement the TODOs in mimic.js to complete the project. But feel free to modify the HTML and/or CSS file to change the look and feel of your game!_

There are two additional files provided for serving your project as a local web application - you do not need to make any changes to them:

- **serve.py**: A lightweight Python webserver required to serve the webpage over HTTPS, so that we can access the webcam feed.
- **generate-pemfile.sh**: A shell script you’ll need to run once to generate an SSL certificate for the webserver.

### Serving locally over HTTPS

In order to access the webcam stream, modern browsers require you to serve your web app over HTTPS. To run locally, you will need to general an SSL certificate (this is a one-time step):

- Open a terminal or command-prompt, and ensure you are inside the `AIND-CV-Mimic/` directory.
- Run the following shell script: `generate-pemfile.sh`

This creates an SSL certificate file named `my-ssl-cert.pem` that is used to serve over https.

Now you can launch the server using:

```
python serve.py
```

_Note: The `serve.py` script uses Python 3._

Alternately, you can put your HTML, JS and CSS files on an online platform (such as [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/)) and develop your project there.

### Running and implementing the game

Open a web browser and go to: [https://localhost:4443/](https://localhost:4443/)

- Hit the Start button to initiate face tracking. You may have to give permission for the app to access your webcam.
- Hit the Stop button to stop tracking and Reset to reset the detector (in case it becomes stuck or unstable).
- Modify the Javascript code to implement TODOs as indicated in inline comments. Then refresh the page in your browser (_you may need to do a "hard-refresh" for the changes to show up, e.g. `Cmd+Shift+R` on a Mac), or use an auto-reload solution._
- When you’re done, you can shutdown the server by pressing `Ctrl+C` at the terminal.

_Note: Your browser may notify you that your connection is not secure - that is because the SSL certificate you just created is not signed by an SSL Certificate Authority‎. This is okay, because we are using it only as a workaround to access the webcam. You can suppress the warning or choose "Proceed Anyway" to open the page._


## Tasks

The starter code sends frames from your webcam to Affectiva’s cloud-based API and fetches the results. You can see several metrics being reported, including emotions, expressions and the dominant emoji!

### 1. Display Feature Points

Your first task is to display the feature points on top of the webcam image that are returned along with the metrics.

To do this, open up mimic.js, and implement the `drawFeaturePoints()` function:

```javascript
function drawFeaturePoints(canvas, img, face) {
    ...
}
```

### 2. Show Dominant Emoji

In addition to feature points and metrics that capture facial expressions and emotions, the Affectiva API also reports back what emoji best represents the current emotional state of a face. This is referred to as the _dominant emoji_.

In mimic.js, implement the `drawEmoji()` function to display this emoji on top of the webcam feed, tracking the user's face:

```javascript
function drawEmoji(canvas, img, face) {
    ...
}
```

### 3. Implement Mimic Me!

Now it's your turn to implement the game mechanics and make it as fun as possible! Scroll down to the bottom of mimic.js for more instructions. Feel free to modify the HTML and/or CSS files to change the look and feel of the game as well.


## Extensions

Sky’s the limit on where you can take this project! Feel free to share with your friends and family. You can host it online to make it available to everyone.

Some ideas for extensions:

- Make it a 2 player game, like Guitar Hero, where you compete with someone to mimic as many emojis as you can out of a streaming sequence of them.
- Pair a stream of emojis with a script and have the player read the script, interspersed with emotional expressions that are checked by the computer. Great for some acting practice!


## Affectiva Resources

As you work on your code, you may have to refer to resources in Affectiva's [JS SDK documentation](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/getting-started-with-the-emotion-sdk-for-javascript).

Other references:

- [Affectiva Developer portal](http://developer.affectiva.com/index.html)
- [Demo](https://jsfiddle.net/affectiva/opyh5e8d/show/) that this project is based on
- Tutorials:
 [Camera stream](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-the-camera-stream-3), [video](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-a-video-frame-stream-4), [photo](https://affectiva.readme.io/docs/analyze-a-photo-3)


<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-nd/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License</a>. Please refer to [Udacity Terms of Service](https://www.udacity.com/legal) for further information.
